Animated builders should be your go-to widget if you want to animate something on the screen, some part
of your widget tree because it's much more efficient than manually controlling it with state and
re-rendering the entire widget tree
as I just explained in the last lecture. But for common things like changing the container, dimensions
or changing a container look, in general Flutter has an even better built-in widget and that's the
animated container. So
let's use that instead of container and
let's therefore get rid of the animated builder,
just wanted to show this in cases where you have no better built-in widget
but here we do.
So let's get rid of the animated builder here,
have the animated container therefore. Now
the child of our container hence is the form again
and with that, the question of course is how does animated container work? Animated container has all
the heavy lifting built-in, so of efficiently running an animation and it automatically transitions
between changes in its configuration.
So if you go back to the old height setup here where we actually switch this when the auth mode changes and
we do the same here for the constraints of course, so
let me set min height here also to this dynamically calculated height, when you go back to that, animated
container will not do the same the normal container does and make a hard switch between these values
but instead, it will automatically detect that that value changed and will smoothly animate between
the values and that does not just work for height or width but for things like padding and so on as well.
Now since the animated container controls the entire animation, you don't even need your own controller
there because it kicks off the animation and reverses it on its own,
basically whenever these values change and you just need to tell it over which duration it should animate,
so you have to set up a duration and here I'll again go for 300 milliseconds and you can also
configure a curve and here for example, you could use easeIn, so to configure how that animation should
look like and how long it should take.
So for this you don't need the animation controller which we setup above and you don't need the height
animation,
I'll still leave that here because we'll need it later but for animated container, we don't need it and
of course it's needless to say that if you want to animate a container,
my suggestion would be that you use the built-in animated container because it's simply more efficient
and does all the heavy lifting for you.
So with that, we have the same animation as before
as you can tell here but now controlled by Flutter's built-in animated container widget.